imagine yourself.
Most all of us that are in this room are not necessarily there yet.
And we're in the retirement season of our life.
We've done our job
We fought the good fight.
We've worked.
We've toiled.
We have put our hand to the plow.
We have done all of the things.
We have been faithful with our finances.
We had managed the way that we were told to by the financial experts of the day.
And now we are in a season of rest.
A season that is supposed to be
Time for me after toil.
A season to spend with grandchildren and children.
A season to enjoy the fruits of your labor.
But only to find yourself at 75, 80, 85 years old, back working,
just to be able to afford rent, a few groceries.
This was the reality for a man named Mr. James, an elderly janitor at a high school in Texas.
Life wasn't easy for him, and honestly, most people might have simply just felt sorry for him and moved on.
But not the students of his high school.
When they found out that Mr. James' situation was as dire as it was, they didn't stop.
They didn't make excuses.
They didn't go, oh, just pour him.
They didn't say it's not my problem.
They didn't say somebody else will help.
Instead, they took action.
They started a fundraiser.
And ultimately, through all of their efforts and all of their situation, they raised over $250,000 to cover the expenses that Mr. James had.
They didn't have to help.
But love doesn't wait for convenience.
Love moves.
Love acts.
So we continue our story today in our series, I Love to Tell the Story.
And today we're going to look specifically at the story of the Good Samaritan.
I realize this is a story that is familiar to most of you.
But see the story of the students and Mr. James reminds me of this story that Jesus tells.
in Luke chapter 10.
So if you have your Bibles, Luke chapter 10, we're gonna start at verse 30.
Yes, there's some set up discussion, some set up information before that, but I'm gonna bank on the fact that most of us are versed and well-knowledge a little about the situation, about the story, and we're just gonna kind of pick up where the rubber meets the road, where the action is, if you will.
Luke chapter 10,
verses 30 to 37.
And this is what it says.
It says, Jesus replied with a story.
A Jewish man was traveling from Jerusalem down to Jericho, and he was attacked by bandits.
They stripped him of his clothes, beat him up, and left him half dead beside the road.
By chance, a priest came along, but when he saw the man laying there, he crossed over to the other side of the road and passed him by.
A temple assistant walked over and looked at him laying there, but he also passed by on the other side.
Then a despised Samaritan came along, and when he saw the man, he felt compassion for him.
Going over to him, the Samaritan soothed his wounds with olive oil and wine and bandaged them up.
Then he put the man on his own donkey and took him to an inn where he took care of him.
The next day he handed the innkeeper two silver coins, telling him, take care of this man.
If his bill runs higher than this, I'll pay you the next time I'm here.
Now, which of these three would you say was a neighbor to the man who was attacked by bandits?
Jesus asked, the man replied, the one who showed mercy.
Then Jesus said, yes, now go and do the same.
The priest in the Levi had their reasons for walking away.
had some function, some purpose.
Maybe they were too busy, maybe they were too scared.
Maybe they were just simply too focused on their own situation.
We don't know.
We're not told.
It wasn't germane to the story that Jesus was communicating.
But the Samaritan, he showed up when it mattered most.
He showed up
When things were difficult, he showed up when he didn't necessarily agree with the person politically that was on the ground.
He showed up when he could have easily, by custom, by law, simply passed on by and let the situation be as it was, let the man deal with the consequences of his own actions.
But he showed up.
He acted.
He was present.
And ultimately today, this is what Jesus is asking of us.
This is what he was asking of his first century followers.
This is what he was asking of his 10th century followers.
This is what he was asking of his 20th, 21st century.
followers.
He's asking us to love like that with no excuses, no conditions, no limits, unconditional, unadulterated, un-everything love.
So what keeps us from loving our neighbor like this?
What keeps us from loving our neighbor enough to say, hey, I need to tell you about somebody?
I'm scared.
What did we just say about the Samaritan?
I'm nervous.
I've got my own things that I'm working on.
I've got my own challenges.
but to love our neighbor enough to say, despite my fear, despite my busyness, despite my own insecurities, challenges, presuppositions, pre-ideologies, political views, or whatever else may be in the mix, regardless of that, I love you enough to put love into action.
Because see, we often make
excuses.
Have you ever noticed how easy it is to find a reason not to help somebody?
I'm tired.
Listen, I worked today.
I've already done my thing.
See, the priest in the Levite in Jesus' story, they knew this well.
Go back if you will.
We're going to just hang right here in this passage today.
This is the crux and the place that we're going to be.
So look back at verses 31 and 32.
Says, by chance a priest came along, but when he saw the man lying there, he crossed over to the other side of the road and passed him by a temple assistant, walked over and looked at him lying there, but he also passed by on the other side.
These two men were religious leaders.
people that were expected to show compassion.
But instead of stopping, instead of doing kind of what was expected of them, they crossed the road to the other side to avoid the injured man.
And again, maybe they thought they were too busy.
Maybe they thought somebody else will help.
I've got to get to temple.
I've got to get the service ready.
I've got to get the sacrifice put together.
I've got to get all of the things that God has ordered us.
These things have to be done.
I have to get there.
I have to manage.
I have to do.
And rather than be the hands and feet of Jesus, they moved on.
Or maybe.
They were simply worried about their own personal safety or convenience.
They didn't agree with him ideologically.
They didn't agree with him politically.
They didn't agree with him spiritually on certain things.
And so maybe they simply said, I'll let him be.
He made his bed.
Let him lie in it.
think that there are situations in our own life that may sound familiar.
Because we do it.
We walk past the co-worker who's clearly having a bad day because
I don't want to get into it with them.
They're obviously in a bad mood.
I don't want to listen to them gripe again about the price of coffee in the break room.
I don't want to listen to them gripe again about their kid and the thing that happened.
I don't want to listen to them again talk about their failing marriage and it always depresses me.
And I don't want to get in the middle of that.
So I'm simply going to go around the cubicle the other way so that I don't get caught up in the conversation with this person because I don't want to deal with their stuff.
We avoid reaching out to the lonely neighbor because it feels awkward.
How do you go to the widow or the widower and say, I'm so sorry that your husband, your wife passed?
How do I help?
How can I help fill in the gap?
The yard's a mess because the widow, the husband who passed was always the one who took care of the yard.
The woman, the widow, or widower, but in my mother-in-law's case, my mother-in-law didn't drive.
When her husband passed when Sister Letitia was 14, there was no more car.
There was no more transportation to the doctor, to church, because her name was Joyce.
Joyce didn't know how to drive.
She never learned.
but the church stepped up.
The church stepped in and filled the gap.
The situations, we scroll past calls for help on social media.
We all have that family member, that cousin, that niece, that nephew, man, I just can't stand people.
Nobody cares about me.
And you know what they're doing.
They're looking for somebody to go, oh no, we care.
And then what do they do?
They ask for money.
They ask for whatever.
We all have those people in our life.
See for ourselves, we do this too.
And our excuses often sound reasonable in the moment.
We've justified them to ourselves.
We've worked them through in our own mind and they sound right.
But deep down we know love calls for more than just hearing or seeing.
I've had this happen in my own life.
I had a friend back in high school.
I was a Christian.
I was already at that point called into ministry.
My buddy Ron, he was my best friend growing up.
He had a situation in his life where his dad had passed away.
His mom was, we'll just say not living the life that she should.
and we'll leave it at that.
He was struggling.
I told myself, I just, I don't know what to say.
I don't have words.
I'm not a counselor.
But the truth was, I didn't want to have a hard conversation with my best friend because I didn't want him to not be my friend after the conversation was over.
want to have some weird situation kind of thing between us?
I was a teenager, I said, I wasn't saying I was smart.
And so what did I do?
I didn't want to feel uncomfortable, so I didn't have the conversation.
How often do we as believers, children of God,
people who have the answer to every situation and every question that could ever be asked of man in one word, Jesus, because He's the answer to everything.
How often do we let fear or busyness or inconvenience or hurt or whatever it is hold us back from showing the kind of love that the good Samaritan showed to this person who had been beaten?
who just simply needed an action, who simply needed movement.
See, when we look at stories like the Good Samaritan, it forces us to confront our own excuses.
Again, the priest and the Levite, they knew the law.
They knew the letter of the law.
They knew where every jot, every tittle, every comma, every breath, mark, every break was, and they knew that they were supposed to love their neighbor.
But the knowledge without action is empty.
We stand and know that we're to do these things.
We know that we're to share the love of Jesus.
We know that we're to spread the gospel.
We know that we're called to speak Jesus to people.
But for whatever reason, we don't.
And so it makes our faith empty.
Because it's not enough to know we should love others.
It's not enough to know that we're supposed to spread the gospel.
It's not enough to know that we know the Scriptures.
We have to love others by showing it.
Even when it's hard.
Even when it's dangerous.
Even when it's painful.
Because words are easy, but real love costs something.
It might mean giving up time.
It might mean giving up comfort.
And frankly, it might even get mean giving up resources, money.
But that's how the love of Jesus calls us to act.
When the homeless person, and I said homeless, I'm not talking about people who play on people's sympathies just to fraud people out of money.
But when the homeless person says, hey, do you have a couple of dollars so I can get something to eat?
Whose money's in your pocket?
Is it your money?
It's God's money.
And if you give that person a couple of dollars to get a sandwich and they go off and they buy beer,
I can't tell you how many times I've heard this excuse.
Well, they're just going to go buy cigarettes.
They're just going to go buy beer.
They're just going to go buy whiskey.
They're just going to go shoot up drugs.
Okay.
And it's God's money.
We give him back a tenth of it, right?
But it all belongs to him.
And if that person frauds,
takes that money and goes and drinks it up, shoots it up, smokes it up, snorts it up, whatever.
They're not frotting me.
They're frotting God.
He'll take care of it.
He's judge.
He's jury.
But if God has said, hey, here, give.
Show this person that I love them.
Yes, I know that they're gonna go shoot it up.
But I want you to stand in the gap today.
I want you to stand where I physically cannot at the moment.
I want you to be my hands extended.
And I want you to express my love to this person, whatever it may be.
We don't have to worry about the outcome, the consequence.
We worry about being obedient.
We worry about sharing the love of Jesus.
We let God worry about the outcome.
We plant others of us water.
God does the increase or the decrease if necessary.
Our job is to move.
Our job is to have action.
Our job is to not make excuses.
So what excuses have I been making?
Ask yourself that.
Not out loud, just in your heart, just you, you and the Father,
What excuses have I been making?
Is it my time?
Is it fear?
Is it indifference?
Is it whatever other plethora of actions or inactions might be?
But write them down.
Pray over them.
God, why am I not
moving, what are the excuses that I'm using not to share Jesus with somebody today?
What is the excuse that I use when I walked down the grocery store aisle and you told me to pray with that person and I kept walking because of whatever reason or I walked around the cubicle or whatever it may be.
Write that down.
Pray over it and ask God to help you move past those excuses.
Here's the note, if you like to take notes.
It's because love.
Real, genuine Christ-like love.
I'm not talking about this stuff that we write on greeting cards and in society and we, so I love this or I love you or I love that.
I'm talking about genuine,
Christ-like love doesn't wait for convenience.
It shows up no matter what.
It shows up because he first loved me.
So I love out.
See Christ-like love calls us higher.
Jesus calls us higher.
Look at verse 33.
This is how Jesus introduces the Samaritan.
He says, then a despised Samaritan came along and when he saw the man, he felt compassion.
This one verse, one line,
One statement by Jesus flips the whole story upside down.
Why?
Because the Samaritan was the last person that anybody expected to help a Jew.
Jews and Samaritan, you know this, had a long history of conflict.
They avoided each other at all costs, yet the Samaritan didn't just see the injured man.
He had compassion on him.
He looked past his outward appearance.
He looked past his political ideologies.
He looked past his socioeconomic status.
He looked past the differences that they had.
Then he saw him and he had compassion on him.
He didn't let their differences, his schedule or his own comfort stop him from loving like Jesus did and loving the person that was in need.
The human being that was in need.
Again, we've got to be good students of Scripture.
And sometimes we have to look beyond the words that are being said and what is being communicated.
And Jesus here is making this big bold point and he's telling us ultimately that love knows no boundaries.
We
can sit as an international church because it doesn't matter where somebody comes from.
It doesn't matter whether they come from across the street or across the pond.
It doesn't matter what political ideologies, if they sit on the right side of our politics or they sit on the left side of our politics.
It doesn't matter how much money they have in the bank or if they even have a bank account.
There are no boundaries.
Real love moves toward the hurting, the broken, and even the ones that we might not naturally get along with.
But be honest, it's hard sometimes.
It's easy to love people who love us back.
But it's much harder to love those who are different from us or who even have some kind of animosity toward us or might I go in a little further and say, it's hard to love somebody who's hurt us.
Yet Jesus calls us higher.
He doesn't just suggest it.
He commands it.
Go back to our stories of the students in Texas and the janitor.
They didn't have to help him.
They could have thought it's not our responsibility.
We're just students.
We, the money we get from our mom and dad, they give us a couple of bucks each day to buy lunch money or to buy lunch.
But they didn't.
They saw somebody in need.
They saw somebody that they cared about.
They saw somebody that they knew they needed to express love to and they took action even though that it required time, effort and sacrifice on their part.
That's the kind of love Jesus calls us to.
A love that moves even when it's inconvenient.
So who's God calling you to love today?
Again, we went through this with the Love Your Neighbor, Art of Neighboring series.
But maybe it's your neighbor that you've never spoken to because they just seem too different.
Maybe it's a co-worker who frankly annoys the snot out of you.
Or maybe it's the family member who is really hard to be around.
This week I wanna challenge you.
Take a bold step of love towards somebody that you find difficult to love.
Let go of excuses.
Let go of the fear.
Let go of the discomfort.
Then write about it.
Chalk down notes of what you experienced when you took genuine Christ-like love to the hard person in your life.
and then write it down on our tree or write it down in our book as a testimony of what God's love can do.
Because you never know, your story might help somebody else take the step that they need to to express that kind of love to the hard person in their life.
Because see,
Love isn't just something we say.
It's something we do.
It's something that moves us.
And the truth is, if we are comfortable coming into church every Sunday, sitting in our pew, singing our song, listening to the message, and going home,
Pull your feet in, folks.
We don't really know what love is.
If we're capable of simply coming to church, going through the motions and going home unaffected and unaffecting the lives that God has given us, we know of God, but we do not know God.
and we do not know His love because love compels us to action.
Love requires us to move.
To know Jesus is to know love.
To know love is to move and to move in action.
to spread that love to a lost and dying world.
The Samaritan didn't just feel the compassion, he acted on it.
Go back to look at verses 34 and 35.
Going over to him, the Samaritan soothed his wounds with olive oil and wine and bandaged him.
Then he put the man on his own donkey and took him to an inn where he took care of him.
Notice this is one of those spots that's very often overlooked.
We very often tell the story that he took him to the inn and he paid the innkeeper to care for him.
And then we focus on, and if there's any left over, I'll make sure and cover it.
What a gracious gift.
But we miss this part.
He took him to an inn where he took care of him.
So he spent the rest of his day caring for this man.
He didn't just leave it to the innkeeper.
He didn't take him to the church and say, hear pastor, hear deacon, hear ministry leader, care for this person, disciple them, raise them up or hear whatever it may be.
He took him and he cared for him for the rest of the day.
He took on the responsibility.
He took on the challenge.
He took on the job of discipling or caring or whatever it is in our modern context.
He did it.
He put his life on hold and took
responsibility for the life that God had given him.
The next day he rested.
The next day he handed the innkeeper two silver coins telling him, take care of this man.
If his bill runs higher than this, I'll pay you the next time I'm here.
Yes, that's important.
Yes, it cost him something.
It cost him money.
But he paid with far greater than that.
Look at all of the verbs that are in that verse went, bandaged, poured, put, brought, took care, love,
is a verb.
It's an action.
It's not passive.
It's active.
The Samaritan could have said, I feel bad for this guy and kept walking, but real love doesn't stay still.
It moves.
It costs something.
The Samaritan gave his time, his resource and his comfort.
He used his supplies to treat the man's wounds.
He gave up his donkey so that the injured man could ride while he walked.
He spent his own money to ensure that the man was cared for.
This is the love that Jesus calls to, sacrificial love.
Today Jesus calls us to this same kind of action, this same kind of love.
not to just love in words, but to love in action, to love in movement.
It's easy to say, I'll pray for you.
It's easy to come to church and say, well, we'll pray for the church.
It's easy to say, well, I'll be praying that God provides for our building.
It's much harder to physically take a hammer in hand.
What if God is calling us to be the answer to the prayer that you keep praying?
Whether it's for the neighbor and God saying, I'm calling you.
The reason you're praying is because I put it on your heart.
The reason you even know about the situation is because I'm calling you to be my hands and feet in this situation.
I'm not just asking you to tell me what I already know.
I'm asking you to be me.
To be Jesus, to be my child, to move, to get off your bottom and to make a difference so that people see me, Him, in me.
Go back to the story with the students and the janitor.
They raised $250,000.
for their janitor.
See, they didn't just feel sympathy.
They moved.
They did something about it.
Their love required action.
And because of that, a man's life was changed ultimately forever.
What would it look like if we loved like that?
What if we stopped waiting for the perfect moment and just moved when we saw the need?
What if maybe it means that we go and visit somebody in the hospital or we pay for a stranger's cup of coffee or simply sitting and listening to a friend who's struggling.
And yes, they've been struggling for years.
And yes, you've heard the story 232 times.
And the story that they're going to fuss about today is story number six.
And you've heard it already.
And last time it was their cousin.
And this time it's their sister.
And then it goes on and on.
But we still sit and we listen.
What if love doesn't have to be grand to be meaningful?
What if the gesture doesn't have to be big and public?
It just has to be meaningful.
It just has to be genuine.
I've been challenging you week after week to take the message that we share together today each and every Sunday and to go put it into practice.
to reach out and love the person that's hard to love.
But maybe it's reaching out to the person that you've been avoiding.
Maybe it's helping a neighbor with a project.
Or maybe it's volunteering your time.
Again, after you've done it, write about it.
Tell the story.
Be part of the story of the next generation.
who needs to hear that we acted out.
We acted in love.
Maybe your story will inspire somebody else to move in love also.
Because here's the truth.
Jesus didn't just talk about love.
Jesus didn't just teach about love.
He lived it out.
day by day, moment by moment, in every act and every action that he had in the roughly 33 years that he was on this planet, he acted out in love, and he calls us to do the same.
So as we close, this is technically my conclusion statement.
It's not necessarily point four.
But we need to love like Jesus.
The priest, the Levite, they had excuses.
The Samaritan had love.
Did you catch that?
The priest and the Levite had excuses.
But the Samaritan had love.
Jesus ends the parable with a question and then a clear command.
Look at those last two verses of this story.
Verse 36 and verse 37 says, Now which of these three would you say was the neighbor to the man who was attacked by bandits?
Jesus asked.
The man replied the one who showed him mercy and then Jesus said yes.
Now go and do the same.
He didn't say, wouldn't it be nice if we went and did the same?
He said, yes, now go and do the same.
It was an action.
It was an immediacy.
And the word now gives us the command to go and do the same.
It's not just a suggestion.
And so for us today, I'm calling us as the body of Christ, as the Bereans.
of St. Louis to go and do the same.
We all have reasons not to love.
We're all busy.
We're all tired.
We're all unsure.
We're all upset about something.
We all have reasons not to express the love of Jesus, but go and do the same.
He called us
to be higher.
He's called us to move.
The Samaritan didn't wait for the perfect moment.
He didn't wait for the right time.
He didn't wait for the right person.
He didn't let fear or inconvenience hold him back.
He saw what was needed and he responded with love.
So what's stopping you?
Who's God calling you to love this week?
Maybe it's somebody you've overlooked.
Maybe it's somebody who challenges you.
They're just that person.
Maybe it's somebody who's in desperate need.
Whatever the case, love requires action.
So this week, let's overcome our excuses.
Let's love boldly.
And let's take one step of love that stretches us.
and then come and share what's happened.
Come and share the testimony.
Because when we love like Jesus, we change the world one neighbor at a time.
The problem is, is we're letting the world's definition of love creep into the church.
It's time to stop giving excuses.
It's time to stop making
reasons and it's time to love like Jesus loved.
Let's pray.
So Father, we thank you that you first loved us.
You gave us an example of the kind of love that you expect from us.
And not only did you give us an example, but your example gave us a story, gave us an illustration of what it is to love the way that you want us to love.
And so God, I ask for each person within the sound of my voice to love the way that you love.
Don't let excuses get in the way.
Don't let societal stuff push in.
But Father, I pray that you would let us love the way that your son loved while he was here, the way that he showed us to love.
Father, let us be blind to politics, to color, to creed, to socioeconomic status.
Let us see people the way that you see them.
Oh, Father, let us see them the way that you see them.
May we see the spirit that you love.
The child that you wrap your arms around.
And that simply needs the hands and feet of Jesus today.
Father, let us love the way that you do.
We praise you and we thank you.
With every head bowed and every eye closed, if there's somebody who needs to make a decision to follow Christ, there's somebody who needs to respond to the message.
The altars are open.
We would love to pray with you or for you to simply find a place of prayer
our closing song.